---
attendees: Jaisidh Singh, Aaron Klein
phase: pre-registration & setup 
---

## Logistics
- Dr. Klein is not allowed to supervise theses in the summer semester
	- Ask Dr. Hein to collaborate as our university-facing supervisor
	- Dr. Orvieto may also be an option and is an interested party of course
- Regular meetings: biweekly for the month of April

## Technical stuff
1. setup a codebase that is fast to edit and experiment with like nanoGPT or parameter-golf
    - [x] Adapt `plainLM` modelling to support hybrid models
      - [x] Install `fla`
      - [x] Test GDN forward pass from `fla`
      - [x] Add utils for easily interleaving different token mixers
      - [x] Test hybrid transformer forward pass
      - [x] Overfit one batch
        - [x] dummy data
        - [x] `openwebtext-gpt2-tokenized`
      - [x] Weight init for hybrid models
        - [x] Currently same init. distribution as attention

2. Launch training runs (Chincilla optimal) to replicate OLMo Hybrid efficiency
  - [x] 36M: 31.7 % efficient
  - [x] 150M: 42.8 % efficient
 
3. Fine sweep for learning rate stability
    - [ ] 36M
    - [ ] 150M
    - [ ] 300M
  - [ ] Multiple optimizers
    - [ ] AdamW
    - [ ] Muon

4. Architectural modifications
  - [ ] layernorm scaling
    - [x] implement
    - [ ] run
  - [ ] mHC
    - [ ] implement
    - [ ] run
  - [ ] attention residuals
    - [ ] implement
    - [ ] run

5. Parameterization
  - [ ] Venkadara $\mu$-P for SSMs + $\mu$-P$^2$ or SP with scaled lr for attention

6. Potential questions:
	1. What parameterisation leads to provably stable hyper-parameter transfer in hybrid models?
	2. What role does architecture (ratio of GDN:Attention) play in expressivity/scaling/token efficiency?
	  - Expressivity:
	    - [x] Replicate the evaluation from OLMo Hybrid paper while varying the GDN:attention ratio
        - [x] Write a script that programmatically generates data for the synthetic tasks
	  	- [ ] Think about execution traces / curricula from OLMo 3
        - [ ] Integrate into current repo's data loading
        - [ ] Launch training
        - [ ] Run evaluation per epoch of training

	3. Does Curse of Depth exist for hybrid models?
	4. Can we validate the claims of the OLMo Hybrid paper in a pure NLP setting?
